docs: 1.17 release notes (#19374)
backstage/backstage: docs/releases/v1.17.0.md

We have removed the ability to define options for plugins and modules, and force them to be optional for services. Options have been moved either to static configuration or extension points, and modules now also have the ability to register extension points.

Service factories are now considered `BackendFeature`s and are installed via `backend.add(...)` rather than via the `services` option, which has been removed.

The configuration service has also been renamed to `rootConfig` in order to match other root-scoped services and make space for a potential plugin-scoped configuration service in the future.

The shared environments concept has been removed. We are still interested in having some way to define reusable presets in the new system, but shared environments were too limited.

We expect these to be the last broad breaking changes to the new backend system, and are likely to start encouraging use of it in the next release.

### Catalog Telemetry with Processing Tracing

> The Catalog has been instrumented with some simple OpenTelemetry Spans so you can now dig into the processing loop and see them with tracing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Catalog has been instrumented with some simple OpenTelemetry Spans so you can now dig into the processing loop and see it in action using tracing.
```

Contributed by [@mikebryant](https://github.com/mikebryant) in [#17534](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/17534)

### New `each` property for Scaffolder Actions

You can now define an `each` iterable in the `steps` for a template, which will run a given action for each entry in the iterable.

Contributed by [@alexef](https://github.com/alexef) in [#18157](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/18157)

### Updated proxy configuration

The shape of the proxy plugin configuration has been changed in order to make space for additional keys. Rather than defining the proxy endpoints directly under `proxy`, they should now be defined at `proxy.endpoints` instead.

### OpenAPI Support for Backend Plugins

You can now use OpenAPI specs to generate typed routers for your backend plugins with request validation using `createOpenApiRouter()`. There’s been some movement to support this for some of the plugins in the monorepo like `todo`, `search` and `catalog`.

Contributed by [@sennyeya](https://github.com/sennyeya) in [#17875](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/17875)

### New plugin: `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-gcp`

> Allows ingesting of GKE Clusters as Resources into the Catalog. Contributed by [@mclarke47](https://github.com/mclarke47) in [#18759](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/18759)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allows ingestion of GKE Clusters as Resources into the Catalog. Contributed by [@mclarke47](https://github.com/mclarke47) in [#18759](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/18759)
```
